Some advantages of smart contracts in blockchain?
Can transfer assets other than value or crypto
Allow specification of rules for a transaction
Facilitates policie for transfer of assets in decentralised network
Adds intelligence and programmability to blockchain


Where are the smart contract stored?
They _are_ the transaction, stored as function calls


What is Solidity in the context of Blockchain?
a tool that we use to generate machine-level code that can execute on the EVM
a language with a compiler which takes our high-level human-readable code and breaks it down into simple instructions like "put data into a register"


Alternatives to Solidity in the context of Blockchain?
Serpent
LLL (the first)
Viper (cutting edge)


What are the elements of the EVM in Ethereum?
A program stack (32 byte words)
A Program Counter
An expandable temporary memory
A permament memory (which is the blockchain)


How do you run a random function in the EVM in Ethereum (any language)? Why?
You don't. Instructions in smart contract must be deterministic
Each node verifies blocks independently. So they must get the same result, there can be no random


Can you access external resources in the EVM in Ethereum (any language)?
Nope. Just memory (either "memory" or "storage")


Who pays for smart contracts in Ethereum?
The person issuing the transaction will also indicate a GAS PRICE they are willing to pay for running the smart contract
If that is deemed enough, contracts will be executed


How do smart contracts interact with the blockchain?
They have their own addressess
They can receive and send Ether
They can tell who is calling their function and act accordingly
They can read from the blockchain and access info from older transactions
It fetches information about the real world through Oracles


Where in the blockchain are smart contracts to be found?
They have their own address


How do smart contracts handle transfers?
They can receive and send Ether


What kind of data can smart contracts use?
They can read from the blockchain and access info from older transactions
They can interact with Oracles, who pass on information about the real world


Who can call functions stored within smart contracts?
They can tell who is calling these functions, and act accordingly


What are Oracles in the context of blockchain?
They are services that interact with smart contracts and provide trusted information about "real world" events or data
They are prepaid in GAS by the smart contract in various ways


What is Oraclize in the context of blockchain?
It's a company that provides Oracles for smart contracts


What is Truffle in the context of blockchain?
Truffle is a development environment, testing framework and asset pipeline for Ethereum


What is Ethereum TestRPC?
Essentially a fake node for testing / developing
Has the ability to compile Solidity smart-contracts into EVM code and run that code too


What are ÐApps in the context of blockchain?
They are decentralised applications
They are open-source
Data and records of operation of application are cryptographically stored
Use a cryptographic token
Generate tokens


What is in brief the process for developing smart contracts applications, ÐApps?
You create the smart contract using Solidity or other language
You create a B/E app using Truffle or similar for testing, to communicate with the smart contracts
You create a F/E app using web3.js to handle the Ethereum parts, to communicate with the B/E
You deploy it to the Ethereum Mainnet


What is Remix in the context of blockchain?
Remix is a powerful, open source tool that helps you write Solidity contracts straight from the browser


Who coined the phrase "smart contract"?
Nick Szabo in the 90s


An important characteristic of a decentralized network enabled by the blockchain technology is that ____
You hold the assets instead of the intermediaries


How does a smart contract transaction differ from the usual cryptocurrency transfer (say. Bitcoin)?
It enables asset transfer in addition to digital currency


What does a smart contract represent?
Business logic layer


Smart contract is the centerpiece of Ethereum blockchain. What is another smart contract model?
Chaincode of Hyperledger


According to Ethereum Metropolis version, once a smart contract is deployed it is immutable. True or False?
True


What are standard notation and encoding used for representing identifiers?
CamelCase and ASCII


How are smart contracts created?
By CLI or app commands, on behalf of an EOA (Externally Owned Account)
...or from inside another smart contracts


How is the address of a smart contract created?
It is computed by hasing the address of the EOA (Externally Owned Account) and a nonce


What is the difference between verification in a cryptocurrency and in smart contracts?
In cryptocurrency we only check existence and validity of UTXO, balances, and some structural characteristics
With smart contracts what we need to validate is application specific


What happens if we want to change a smart contract?
We can't. They are immutable.
We either create a new contract
Or somehow redirect the output of the old one to a new one


What are some basic elements of a smart contract?
State variables or data that define the contract
A collection of functions that allow to carry out the intent of the contract
Pragma directive
Name of contract


What does the pragma in a smart contract do?
Tells the EVM what version of the language to use, e.g. <tt>pragma solidity ^0.4.0</tt>


What about types in Solidity?
It's a statically typed language with many types
Ints of different lengths, signed and unsigned uint256 int32 existence
Strings
Structs
Enum
Address ...


What are some artefacts generated when compiling a smart contract?
ABI
Contract Bytecode
WebDeploy Script
Gas Estimate
Function hashes
Instance Bytecode


What is an ABI in the context of smart contracts?
Generated when compiling a smart contract
Application Binary Interface
The interface schema to validate what functions the transactions can invoke


What is Contract Bytecode in the context of smart contracts?
Generated when compiling a smart contract
The bytecode that is execute to instantiate a smart contract on the EVM


What is a WebDeploy Script in the context of smart contracts?
Generated when compiling a smart contract
Includes json to web application to invoke smart contract function, ...
...and ascript for programmatically deploying a smart contract from a web application


What is an Gas Estimate in the context of smart contracts?
Generated when compiling a smart contract
Gas estimates, this provides a gas estimates for deploying the smart contract and for the function invocation


What are Function hashes in the context of smart contracts?
Generated when compiling a smart contract
First four byte of the function signatures to facilitate function invocation by a transaction


What is Instance bytecode in the context of smart contracts?
Generated when compiling a smart contract
The bytecode of the smart contract instance.


Some characteristics of EOA (Externally Owned Account)?
An externally controlled account...
...has an ether balance,
...can send transactions (ether transfer or trigger contract code),
...is controlled by private keys,
...has no associated code.


Some characteristics of contract account in Ethereum?
A contract account...
has an ether balance,
has associated code,
code execution is triggered by transactions or messages (calls) received from other contracts.
when executed - perform operations of arbitrary complexity (Turing completeness)...
...manipulate its own persistent storage, i.e., can have its own permanent state
...can call other contracts


What sets in motion all action on the Ethereum block chain?
Transactions started from EOA (Externally Owned Account)


When are smart contracts executed in Ethereum?
Every time a contract account receives a transaction from a EOA, its code is executed as instructed by the input parameters sent as part of the transaction


What is a transaction in Ethereum?
The signed data package that stores a message to be sent from an externally owned account to another account on the blockchain


What is a message in Ethereum?
Virtual objects that are never serialized and exist only in the Ethereum execution environment
In practice, the same as a transaction, but initiated by a smart contract


Isn't having all the EVMs in the full nodes in the Ethereum network verify every transactions inefficient?
Efficiency is not the point
The point is decentralisation in an environment with untrusted nodes


Why does the Ethereum protocol charge Gas for performing computations?
To prevent abuse


What happens if the Gas estimation for an Ethereum transaction is too high?
The extra Gas is sent back
Therefore it paus off to have large estimates


What factors dictate Gas Price in Ethereum?
Gas Used the sum of all the gas for all the operations executed
Gas Price


What purposes can smart contracts serve on the blockchain?
Maintain a data store (a currency, a list of members of an organisation...)
Use as an EOA on steroid (i.e. implement complex access rules)
Provide a relationship between multiple users
Provide functions to other contracts, basically acting as a library


On how many nodes are smart contracts deployed?
On all nodes. It's distributed


How are smart contracts deployed with Remix?
They are compiled, and one of the artefacts is a Web3 Deploy script that pushes it to all EVMs


Can you run Bitcoin miners anywhere?
Nowadays they use large, expensive machines


What are some functions of Bitcoin miners?
Book-keeping - each syncs in real time the whole ledger
Network guardians - safeguard the network against hacks and validate each transaction
Settlement and clearing - no third party required
Creation of new bitcoins - 12.5 BTC are created every 10 miners


How are Bitcoin transactions chosen to be added to block, prioritised as...
Size in Kb
Age of transaction
Value of input
Only the first 50kb of the block are earmakred for priority transactions


What are Coinbase transactions?
The 0th transaction in a block, which is used as fee to the miner